Hello everyone and welcome to this deep dive into how the damage calculations work in Diablo 4. I'm going to cover every single step of the calculation and show multiple proofs that this formula is exactly how it works in game. I will briefly mention what goes into every single part of this calculation, go through evidence where I'm adding more and more things to my character just to show just how everything is interconnected. If you just want to skip to the last example where I have a bunch of stuff and show that that is how the damage actually works, then by all means do so, but I'm adding variables as I go on explaining exactly where they go and for what reason. So, if you want to genuinely learn this, I recommend going through the entire video and all the examples to learn from it. Without further ado, let's explain where all of these multipliers come from, where you can find them, and how they work. First of all, we have the average weapon damage. This you can find under the offensive tab on the character sheet. Make sure that you're using the average weapon damage value for the weapon you're using when you're attacking. So, if I'm using a melee attack for rogue, I would use the dual-wielded weapon damage. If I'm using a ranged attack, I will use the ranged weapon damage. This number changes when you add average weapon damage to the calculation, so it will just bump it by that amount. So, if you add 141 damage to your melee, I would have 3,200 weapon damage instead. The additive damage part is probably the thing that I get the most questions about when it comes to the damage calculation and how it actually works. If you go into the stat sheet, you will have all of these numbers that you can see right away, but these numbers are fake. These numbers have a combined additive amount and multiplicative amount together in a product that doesn't work in the game and it's not used in any of the calculations. This has been known for as long as this game has been around. I've made multiple videos and comments about this. I will show you that this is a fake number. You always want to hover over the stat that you're looking at and then use the bottom value where it says you have 0.0% of this stat from items and Paragon. That is your true additive amount. When it comes to this skill damage multiplier, that is your main stat. For Rogue, you take your total amount of dexterity divided by 800 to get this percentage. So, if you have 528 dexterity, this would be 66.0% skill damage percentage and you just put that into this calculation right here. When it comes to the skill coefficient, it depends on the skill that you're using. If you have advanced tooltips enabled, you will find it within brackets where it says 45% for blade shift. But, you basically just take that coefficient and use it as a factor in this multiplication. It is very important that this is not an increased stat, so it's basically just 45, not 100% plus 45. Then, you have the next confusing thing, which is the product which is the global multipliers. I've summarized this as the product of global multipliers because everything with an X in front of it is a separate multiplier that multiplies your damage individually. So, if you have grandfather, that would be one separate multiplier. If you have Godslayer on your helm, that is one separate multiplier. If you have whatever glyphs, aspects, everything, they are their own separate multipliers. That has not changed and has been the case for at least 10 seasons by now. The new thing with this multiplier, though, that people need to be aware of are the four new multipliers introduced in season 13 and Lord of Hatred. It is the new critical strike multiplier, vulnerable multiplier, all damage multiplier, and dot multiplier. Those are the four new multipliers. These multipliers, they take the sum of all of the affixes that are called the same thing with exception for all damage, we'll get to that in a second. That means, for example, for the critical strike multiplier, you take the sum of everything that says X, then a percentage, then critical strike multiplier. It needs to be all of those words. If it says plus critical strike damage, that is not in that multiplier. If it says uh X 33% critical strike damage, that's also not in that multiplier because it doesn't have the word multiplier in it. The one outlier for this system is the all damage multiplier which includes non-physical damage, so poison damage, shadow damage, whatever, and also physical damage. You take the sum of all of those three different stats into one larger multiplier. So, for instance, your gems on your weapons and the affixes on your gear that says X% poison damage multiplier, that is summed together with X% all damage multiplier into one larger one. And those four different multipliers are all separate multipliers in this big calculation. I'm going to prove this and show this. I'm also going to time stamp where I prove it, so you guys can go there and check for yourselves. The final part about this calculation is the enemy damage reduction and this needs to be included. This will be 80% damage reduction, so basically you take your entire multiplication that you've done here and then you multiply it by 20% at the end to get the actual real damage value. Throughout this video, I'm going to be using this formula as an example where I'm going to be listing all of the stats that I'm adding to my character in order to get the damage number on screen. So, anytime I add a additive damage value, I'm going to list it down here just so that you see where it comes from. And it's the same thing with the global multipliers, so that there is no confusion where this number was derived from. If we go in game to look at my character, we can see that my weapon damage right now is 3,059. My dexterity is 66%. I have zero additive damage on this character that will impact this test at all. Not a single one. Just being thorough and showing I do have damage versus elites, but I'm hitting a normal dummy, so this additive stat will not activate. Another thing to note is that I have physical damage multiplier on my gear, and I also have a all damage multiplier on my crossbow. If I sum these together, like I said in the introduction, I have 18% my weapon plus 10% on my one-hand weapon and 9% on my ring for a total of 137. So, if we look at the number to get here, I would need to get 626 damage when I hit this training dummy for this calculation to make sense. And I stab the training dummy, and we can see 626. Moving swiftly on, I'm now going to start adding variables to continue proving that this formula is correct. We start with chip glyph. Chip glyph gives me additive physical damage because the top stat on a glyph is always additive damage to your character. It's not a multiplier. It also says at the very bottom that I get a legendary bonus that increase my physical damage by 10.4%. So, to add this to my calculation, I then basically add 66.7% physical damage here to my additive multiplier. I also multiply my all damage plus physical multiplier with the chip physical damage multiplier to get a product of 151.248% and I put that in this spot in the formula. So, now the number I should beat is 1152.27. So, going back into the game, I have equipped my glyph, and the very important part here is that when you I look at this character stat sheet, it looks like I have 152% additive damage. I don't. In fact, the glyph even lies in the tooltip on the Paragon. I actually get 66.7. So, if you want to be very thorough, always look at the bottom stats when you're hovering over a stat line to get exactly how much additive damage you have. If I would have put 67% like it says on the glyph, I would have done more damage than I actually do according to the calculation. So, I'm showing the calculation on screen. The number to beat is 1,152 and I do 1,152. So, we've proven two things here. We've proven that the additive multiplier is the way it is and that these global multipliers are multiplying to each other and they're not additive to each other. But, the observant person will also see something where this is the only situation where the tooltips make sense. If we use this additive multiplier which only has physical, this is very important. It only has physical damage in it and we take it times the global multiplier which only has things affecting physical damage. And I take these two factors and multiply them together, the product, if I also subtract 100, will be my physical damage bonus that we see on the tooltip. This is incredibly important because this is where the confusion happens. If I deal damage and I only have one type of additive stat and only have one sort of global multiplier, the top tooltip will show me the 100% plus additive times all of the global multipliers that I have. The reason why this is confusing is because people will look at this top number and plug that into the additive damage when this is in fact already multiplied by a global multipliers specifically speaking to physical damage. When it comes to like the very very very late game when you have a bunch of different multipliers all speaking to various parts of this formula, it would be as if it's double dipping and triple-dipping on the additive multiplier when that's not the case at all and I'm going to prove that, but I just wanted to point out where this top tool tip number comes from. So basically, this top number you can't use it for calculations in any real circumstance. In this super niche case, it kind of works because of the commutative property of multiplication. You can put it in whatever order you want and then it would sort of be okay, but in actual real communication but in actual real calculations for this, it would break very quickly. You can check this yourself, but I wanted to make sure that I explain exactly where this number comes from. Don't use it, please. The correct number to use is always going to be this bottom one. The top one you want to avoid at any cost because it doesn't communicate reality to you when it comes to these calculations. Just to ramp up to some of the larger multipliers, adding my error prediction, this would not in fact impact my damage with my basic skill apart from the 80% multiplier. So as I'm going to show above, I'm adding a 80% multiplier to my total damage and my damage should now be 2074, which it is. This is just another global multiplier. I'm also now finally going to add critical strike damage to this calculation as well. As we can see on my character, I have a 42% critical strike damage multiplier on my amulet. I also have 14% on my weapon for a total of 56% critical strike damage multiplier. I also have the baseline 50% crit, but remember those two are two separate multipliers and I will show that in the calculation above as well. If I now crit on a training dummy, I should be dealing 4,853 damage. So I will hit these training dummies and see if I can crit. And I crit for 4,854 damage, which proves crit damage baseline, you know, the 50% that you have to begin with, that amount of critical strike damage is multiplicative to the critical strike damage multiplier that you have, and it also proves that the critical strike damage multiplier is a sum of all of the stat lines on your gear that says critical strike damage multiplier. Yes, that was a lot of words, but the calculation on screen will show exactly what I'm saying, but in a formula format instead. So, now we're going to add additive critical strike damage and another critical strike damage multiplier just to continue proving this concept. I'm adding the combat glyph, which also gave me a little bit more uh dexterity, so we're going to adjust for that in the formula as well. I'm also going to hover over the critical strike damage in game to see exactly how much critical strike damage I added. Do keep in mind that I also got a 14.2% multiplier to my critical strike damage. We have to add that under the global damage multipliers, too. So, as we can see on screen right now, having added the combat glyph, we should be dealing 10,658 damage if we crit. But numbers are now going to be rounded to three digits instead, so like 10.6 is what we should be seeing. If I crit, we got 10.6 K damage as we would expect. So, we have now seen that the additive critical strike damage is not interacting with the combat glyph multiplier, which is not interacting with my additive critical strike damage multiplier on my gear. They're three completely separate things. To keep adding multipliers and random constants into this, we're now going to add vulnerable and the chip damage multiplier to this. The chip multiplier is basically, if I hit a training dummy 15 times, it's going to give me 15% more damage. And the vulnerable damage should just be another 20% multiplier due to the inherent 20% base multiplier that we get from it. So, if I keep hitting this training dummy for 15 times while it's vulnerable, we can now see 14, 15. So, 15k damage on the screen. So, we are still in the clear. We're still correct. Like I said as well, these numbers will be rounded now, so it's going to be hard to know if we are precise on the decimal, but if we were off, we would be way more off than this. Now, we're going to speed up the process a little bit. I've added a ring with a critical strike damage multiplier, vulnerable multiplier. I have also added 60% multiplicative vulnerable damage from this paragon node. I've also added a bunch of different additive vulnerable damage nodes to this. To go over the stat sheet just to see what happens, I now have 56.3% additive vulnerable damage that we add to our additive and multiplier. Our dexterity also changed to 612, so we changed the dexterity multiplier to 76.5. But, here we run into another issue with damage calculations, and it's the fact that the tool tip on my ring stated that I had 18% vulnerable damage multiplier on it, but masterworking sometimes causes rounding issues, which would make you do inaccurate calculations again. We proved earlier that the top tool tip value was the additive damage for that damage type multiplied by every single factor that spoke to that damage type. We have our vulnerable damage multiplier, we have exploit weakness, which increased our vulnerable damage, but also the vulnerable damage. So, if you take the product of all of this, we get 54.11, which is not correct. We should to the number 252.5. So, how do we get that number? If it was instead rounded up from 17.5 up to 18, you would see that I would get a multiplier that is 252.61, which is a very, very close to what is this on the tooltip. So, what is very likely happening here is that this vulnerable damage multiplier on the ring that we see in game right here is in fact rounded in some weird way due to the master working. Every other item has been base, but due to master working, the rounding here is slightly off. So, we're going to use 17.5 because it's closer to the real value, and it would show as 18% on the tooltip. Having adjusted the formula for this, the rounding to 17.5 instead of 40,600 like it would be if it wasn't rounded weirdly, it should show us 40.4k. Hitting this training dummy to stack the chip for 15 times means we're seeing 40.4k. So, this was likely the case, just a small rounding error on one of the tooltips. Now, we're shown that vulnerable damage, the multiplier, the additive, and the new multipliers do not speak to each other at all. They're all separate multipliers. We are also shown that critical strike damage multiplier, the affix on weapons and on your armor is in fact additive to only themselves and not to the other crit interactions. Adding overpower to this equation is not difficult at all. I will cast concealment, which will give me four stacks of overpower. I don't have any additive overpower on my gear at all, which means that this damage should in fact just go up with 60% additive damage to the additive multiplier. So, hitting this training dummy, like the same process again, until I get max stacks with chip, and then I go concealment. We see 47,000 on the dot, which is exactly the number we're looking for, showing once again that overpower is in fact additive to your damage kit. I have now just added two I've just I have now just added two more additive damage stats to this. I've added 24% all damage and a 37% cutthroat damage to show that tempering for the most part is additive damage unless it speaks to a specific thing like imbue and potency, but for the most part it is additive. So, we're adding that to our additive multiplier and seeing how much damage we're dealing. So, hitting the training dummy once again, our target number number is 53,671 when I have overpower stacks. I use concealment and check. I have 53,600, which is then within the rounding shenanigans that we talked about before. But just to further prove that these numbers are additive to its own multiplier, I'm going to add another item with 25% vulnerable damage multiplier and 22% physical damage multiplier to their respective multipliers and see how that impacts the damage. Adding those to their multipliers and adjusting for the dexterity I just gained, I should see along the lines of 76.2 when I have overpower up. So, we'll use overpower and I get 76.2. So, what is the takeaway from this video? The takeaway from this video is that we basically haven't changed how the fundamental damage calculation works at all. The only thing that we have added are these three new multipliers that are only additive to itself, but still functions as a global multiplier. You take the sum of all of these affixes, which has explicitly damage multiplier in the name. So, for critical strike damage, you take the sum of everything that says critical strike damage multiplier and that counts as one global multiplier. The same thing with the vulnerable damage multiplier stat, you take the sum of that and that functions as its own damage multiplier independent of everything else. The same thing with all damage and physical damage and elemental damage. All of those elemental physical and damage multipliers from your affixes and your weapons are summed and gems are summed together into one independent multiplier which does not communicate at all with your additive damage stat. So basically everything from your glyphs, from your paragon, everything that says plus in front of it like your tempers as well, they are in this green additive multiplier over here as one sum of all of these numbers. When it comes to anything with an X in front of it, it's still a global multiplier that is just multiplied to all of your other factors to get your final damage value. I know this is complicated and I know that people are still going to have questions about it and I'm more than happy to help answering them down below, but the only thing you need to take away, which is what I tried to communicate in the old video, was that the new stat that is the only new part in this damage calculation and it's still just a global multiplier. If you sat through this and just went through all of these tests and just try to figure out, I appreciate you. I hope that you learned something today. If it's still unclear how something works, by all means ask me in the comment section down below. I want to have a conversation about this. I want to help you guys understand this so you can have as much fun with the video game as possible because you will be stronger in game because of it. Plus sign equals additive. X sign means multiplicative. New stats are additive to themselves, but work as a multiplier to all of your damage. Thank you guys so much for watching. I will see you guys in the next one. Ciao.