Hello everyone. Maybe you are like me and when you're trying to maximize the damage on your character, you see an item like this amulet and you're wondering, should I master work the damage overtime multiplier or should I master work the vulnerable damage multiplier? Should I even go for skill ranks or something else instead? Then this video is going to be for you. This is going to be an extreme deep dive in how I analyzed my characters and how I set up this funny fancy tool in order to do these calculations for me. I have fact checked 99% of this just to make sure that everything is working as intended and I've verified it with the in-game damage, but I have not added every single global multiplier and every other things to make this calculator in game accurate. This is to compare stats on items, not so much the multipliers that you can get on them from like having another aspect or another like random transfiguration option. This tool is a work in progress and I plan on updating this just for convenience sake, but this is not going to be a full-fledged calculator. This is a tool for you guys to compare items on your character and what stats to go for in order to be as optimized as possible. The TLDDR to use this calculator efficiently is the following. Unequip all of your gear and only have Paragon nodes and glyphs on you to get the dexterity and the additive damage you have baseline. While your gear is unequipped, grab the rank one skill coefficient for the skill that you want to compare to. Add how many ranks of the skill ranks you have and how many extra skill ranks you're going to have from items such as air pedition for core ranks, ring of starless skies, elder, your charms, etc. And add that here. Once you have done that, you can start equipping all of your gear. You check for main stat on your main pieces all the way to the left, but then you start inputting all of the stats that you have on your entire character. Select the weapon combination you're using. If you're using double sword to deal damage, select sword on both. If you're using daggers, then just untick the sword and go for daggers. Same thing if you're using a ranged weapon instead, just untick the melee weapons and go for crossbow. Once you have put in all of the stats, make sure to disable the crit module if you're going for damage over time scaling or have it deselected if you are going for a crit build. If you're playing dance of knives, you select this button. This will enable the attack speed module to function as a multiplier for dance of knives. It's not enabled for other skills because I haven't added a framework for breakpoint analysis in this calculator. You can then quickly check the relative gain from adding or removing stats by doing just adding like 20% if you want to add something or minus 20% if you want to remove something. The total change in your damage is going to be shown in the calculation window. So let's say we're doing 20% minus on this but adding 30% of this. You can see that we lost about 1% damage doing this change on our gear. You will be able to find this in my old calculator link. I will link it in the description below. But for now, let's fill this out together. So you guys have a sort of road map in order to know where all the stats go. So let's start by just duplicating this and calling it a video test. Let's just go for that. And then we clear out all of these stats. As you can see, I can change all of these cells that are grayed out. They're not going to break anything in the calculator. All it's doing is saying that we do not have these stats currently. So, let's start from the beginning when we had the damage calculation. Basically, your weapon damage is set as long as you've master worked the item to 25 and you have it at like 900 item power. This calculator automatically assumes you have an ancestral weapon and then you just select which one you want to use. So, for example, let's say that I'm running sword and a dagger. I will select one of each. It will automatically give you the weapon damage in the calculator without you needing to do anything. Whereas, if you're dealing damage with a range weapon, you select the range weapon you have, and it will also automatically update the weapon damage to the correct average damage on that weapon. For the purpose of this video, we're just going to use swords for this. Uh, so we select having two swords and then we move on to dexterity and we move on to the stats from your character. Let's go into the character real quick and just show you guys that this character is basically I have a bunch of paragon points. I have all of my skill notes and everything, but it's going to be confusing for you guys to know exactly which numbers to put put in where, especially if you're comparing items where you have varying degrees of stats. So, what I did is I basically remove all of my items from my character, every single item. And I also check my talisman to see do I have any stats on these? I have ranks which I have to account for later, but for the purpose of this, I don't have any more stats on my character that is associated to gear. So, what I do now is I start inputting these stats that I have because they are going to be the stats I have for my glyphs and the stats I have for my paragon. Just to make it clean and simple. So, I have 614 dexterity. We go back over to the calculator and we slot in 614 dexterity. The base dexterity, in other words, means the dexterity I have my character when no armor is equipped. Extra dexterity on this is if you have talisman with all stats for instance, you're going to have a extra flat amount. So let's say you have 100 all stats on every single piece that you have. That would be another 500 exterity in total. But we don't have that. We only have 614 base. So we leave it at that. Then we look at our additive stats. So we go back in game and we check these additive stats. Going from the top to bottom, I have to look at the bottom value on this tool tip, which says I have 0%. So I don't have to add that. Then I have 31.3. So without me tabbing back and forth between these calcs, I'm just going to show you where the numbers come from and then I'll show you how to plug them into the calculator. So this was 131.7. So I plugged that into my calculator. So I'm dealing poison damage with this build. So I don't look at my coal damage. I only look for my poison damage, which is which is 200.3%. Then I go down to my damage with imbument. This is a multiplier as we can see by it not having any additive at the bottom. So I skip it. Here you have to make a decision. Are you close frequently? Are you distant frequently? And most of the time I'm distant with this build because I play basically a kite style. So I put this into the distant damage. Here I have 193.6 elite damage. So I put that into the calculator. 435.9. In reality crowd control is not a permanent state. So that this wouldn't be active all the time. If you want to normalize this to like an average of some sort, you could keep it as 435.9 basically 100%. If you're speed farming and if you're pushing, you put it closer to 40%. Somewhere in the in that range. For the purpose of this calculator to keep it as fair as possible, I will take that number times 0.7 because I have roughly 70% uptime. This is the same thing where if you're bursting, you will do this frequently like for a pen shop build. for a dot build like this one. For a dot build like this one, it's going to be 20% of this. So, just to keep it fair, I take 123.7 and then I multiply by 0.2 just to give me the rough average. It's not exact, but we just need the rough numbers here to make this make sense. And then I am done. I don't have any more additive without having my gear equipped. So, if we go back to the calculator now and just check, I plugged in my 3 1.3% vulnerable damage. I plugged in my 20030% poison damage, my distant damage, my elites damage, crowdcontrolled that is normalized, and the same thing with healthy for a total of 795% uh total. I don't have any extra skill tag dependent uh additive damage in this. So, I will remove the extra additive. So, my total multiplier now for additive damage is going to be this number plus 100% from multiplier, which makes it a 895.07. 07% multiplier. Before we start looking at the gear pieces and what they add to your character, we need to make sure that we find our skill coefficient at level one. Some skills like dance of nice has some sort of funky attack speed scaling which makes this percentage change depending on how much attack speed you have. So what you need to do is unequip all of your gear, remove all of your skill ranks until you only have one point in the main skill that you're going to use to compare this to. And then you plug that number in. So level one skill coefficient is 65% for dance of knives. Then we're going to decide how many skill ranks are we going to use. We're going to use 15 skill ranks because it's our main damaging skill. So we want to have as many ranks as possible. And then in the extra skill rank section, we add as many skill ranks as we have from our items and effects later on. So, if we go back in game, we can see that for my rogue, if I equip all of my charms, I would have a bunch of extra imbument ranks. But for the purpose of this calculator and me looking at dance of knives primarily right now, I'm going to have six skill ranks from these two. And then I'm going to have another eight from my Eldrin for a total of 14. So, we put 14 over here in the calculator. I'm going to add an imbument section to this as well, just to see the duo scaling of this. But for the purpose of like when you're optimizing yourself, try to keep the core ranks and the imbument ranks as equal as possible for maximum DPS without sacrificing skill ranks. With that out of the way, we can now equip our gear because the things that are in this calculator from now on is just based on the gear pieces and comparing gear pieces. So, let's equip all of our gear pieces and see how much stats we're getting from everything. So, first of all, let's look at our helmet, chest, pants, and boots to see if we have any dexterity on them. I don't have any on my helmet. I have 180 for my gems on my chest. So, we plug that in. I have 104 on my pants. So, we put plug that in as well. And I have 144 on my boots. The reason why we're doing it this way is because we want to know exactly how much dexterity we have from every single piece and how they're interacting to have proper stat weights for every single offensive item cuz that's where most of the damage come from. We can now also start plugging in the offensive stats on all of our pieces. So, for instance, I have 184 dexterity on my gloves. So, I go over to gloves and plug in 184. I then also have a 44% vulnerable damage multiplier. I have a 63% dot damage multiplier. And I have 63% damage over time from my temper. So, we put that in as well, just to show you guys where I put that. You can see that I have my glove slot over here. I put 44% for my vulnerable damage multiplier. I got 63% for my dot damage multiplier and then 63% for my temper. As we can see here, this calculation will roughly show the stat weights of everything. But these are going to change with the more pieces that we are going to add. But let's say that if I didn't have an amulet right now, you can see that my dot damage multiplier would have very high value and then my vulnerable damage would be next. After that, it would be non-physical and then it would be attack speed if I'm playing dance knives. Continuing to my next offensive slot on the list is my two-handed weapon. So, I'm going to plug in 378 dexterity. I'm going to plug in 120% damage overtime multiplier. I'm going to plug in 25% of my all damage multiplier and 150% on my damage temper. Importantly here, because I do not have my ranged weapon selected as one of my used weapons, I will not get weapon damage as one of the suggested stats to use. This is intended because if you're not using the weapon when you're attacking, you don't benefit from the weapon damage on it. Do remember to check your weapon as well. Here we can see that I have two 22% poison damage multiplier gems, which means in the calculator we need to make sure that we have 44% in total on the weapon. If I remove this, you can see that my all damage multiplier changes, which means that we are accounting for it. Moving quickly on and filling out the rest of this, we have the one-handed sword here, which has weapon damage on it. So, 139 weapon damage. It has a damage overtime multiplier of 49%. It has dexterity of 201 and a damage overtime roll of 75%. Filling in my other sword, I have 200 all stats, 45% damage multiplier, and damage over time. We filled that in. So, 45% damage over time. We have 200 all stat, 75% damage over time. And then, of course, remember to plug in the gem quality that you have on your gems. So, it should look something like this. I plugged in the all damage, the dexterity, the temper, and then the gem. I don't have any dot damage multiplier on this, so this is going to be my weapon in this slot. For the purpose of saving time, I plugged all of these item stats into the calculator. Now, you could pause to see the items if you want to and compare them to the calculator later. I did realize I forgot to plug in the core ranks from my ring of starless skies and my air predition in the calculator to begin with. So, I'm adding seven more to this number going from 14 extra skill rank to 21. and it will give me 36 total ranks stating that it will give me a skill coefficient of 3.153. Now, this is going to be different than the number I have here in game. You can see that it's larger. It's 481. That's because attack speed scales this number up like we said it earlier. So, to make this calculator accurate, that's why we used a rank one skill coefficient when we had nothing equipped. So, this wouldn't be changed. So, what can we take from this? from all of these calculations and all of these like extra stats and everything. Well, we can see on all of my items right now that we have these green cells right here. These green cells are showing which stats would be the most optimal to have on my item given my current items, right? So, let's say that ah okay, the attack speed is slightly more damaged uh than my dexterity. So, let's try removing 189 from my dexterity. And let's let's say that we're adding 15% attack speed roughly. We can see that now gained according to this calculator a 3.62% damage increase. This gain one is mostly a sanity check for me. I've not added all of this as of recording this video because the logic is kind of funky. But this thing right here is what you're looking to increase. And changing these cells will dynamically change the stat weight on everything else. So, let's say that I gained oh, I have 200 extra vulnerable damage multiplier on my amulet. It's not possible, but let's say I have it. The relative value of vulnerable damage is going to decrease. But we can see here that my relative value of vulnerable damage and dot damage is actually very similar with my current setup. What this means is that I've actually balanced them fairly well. If I were to say gain 20% more dot damage at the cost of let's say 10% vulnerable damage, this is going to shift the hierarchy so that vulnerable damage is more worth a little bit more damage. But the funny thing here is that because we have so few multipliers and dot damage doesn't compete with my direct damage, it's actually damage loss from my direct damage, which is not surprising seeing as we removed the damage that impacts our direct damage and we added something that adds our damage over time. So, how can you use this tool? Well, you can do plus and minus on these change cells as much as you want to to see what would happen if you were to add or remove a stat line. I can remove 189 dexterity from here. I can remove 23% all damage. And then let's say that okay, I want to add 20% more dot damage multiplier and I also want to add three skill ranks to this and see what happens with our damage. As we can see, doing this change would result in a 3.9% damage loss. So, the annoying part for you is setting up your stats for this calculator. And then it it's kind of quick to compare what would happen if you're changing certain stats. There's still some math involved. At least you can use this to quite quickly gauge is this going to be worth it or is it not going to be worth it. Do note that when you don't have the dance of knives mode enabled, the attack speed is not going to be factored in at all into the end calculation. The reason for this is because attack speed is not linear for every skill. Some skills have breakpoint earlier. Some skills are fairly quick already. So, if you're not playing Dun Knights, do not have this button enabled cuz that is going to quite significantly shift your results from reality and it will not be as accurate. Do note that if you're playing a damage overtime build, you want to press this button in order to disable the crit modules just to make this a little bit more clean. If I untick this, it will remove the dot damage multiplier from the entire calculator and show you the relative gain of having crit damage stats and it will automatically just populate those values instead. If I didn't have the 15% here, I would still have 0% damage from crit damage multipliers. But having 15% on my Ring of Star and Skies means that I'm getting some value out of the crit damage multiplier. But let's say that from air pedition and some random talents and whatnot, I have 50% crit chance. This is now going to basically tell you how much crit damage is worth it and crit chance is worth it compared to other stats because we don't have a lot of added damage and we also don't have a crit damage multiplier. Adding more crit chance is not going to be worth it. But adding critical strike damage multipliers will be. So let's say that we were to add 200% critical strike damage multiplier to our gear. This is going to relatively speaking decrease the value of this multiplier. But as we can see, it also increases the value of crit chance by a lot. The same thing if we're adding 5,000 critical strike damage to a character, that also increases the relative value of having more crit chance. So, this calculator is supposed to be doing most of the job for you, but there are some things you're going to have to input yourself. I hope that this calculator is useful. You can find it in the description below. It's the same link as before. I've just added the V2 to this for the people that like to have it, but at least I've shown where you can get all of your stats. I know that multipliers aren't included in this, like the transfiguration multipliers you can get or aspects and legendary nodes and all that, but those are just just a multiplier. It's just like you multiply your total damage by that value and you get the final damage number, right? So, this is just to compare the stats, which is basically what most people are confused about. Anyway, I hope this calculator helps. If not, please tell me how I can improve it and I will start tinkering with it over the next couple of days. But this is a work in progress for now. It's just a tool that hopefully you guys can use. Thank you guys so much for watching. I will see you guys in the next one.